[CCA-443] add Custom allocation rules docs (#27499)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/cloud_cost_management/custom_allocation_rules/_index.md

---
title: Custom Allocation Rules
description: "Allocate cloud costs based on custom allocation rules."
further_reading:
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/cloud_cost_management/?tab=aws#overview"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Cost Management"
---

## Overview

> Custom cost allocation allows you to showback or chargeback your costs by attributing selected costs to relevant business dimensions. Once you have set up allocation rules, you can report on which costs were allocated by a rule. 

Reviewer: Feel like this should be moved elsewhere or put in an info box?
`Once you have set up allocation rules, you can report on which costs were allocated by a rule.`

Reviewer: Is this saying a user can see allocated_by_rule tag or that the allocation persists?

> Custom cost allocation follows Tag Pipelines, enabling allocations based on user-defined tags. Costs are allocated on a daily basis, and can be applied to Cloud Cost metrics from AWS, GCP, and Azure. 

Reviewer: Did we not end up supporting allocation by month in the UI?

## Rule creation

> Access the Custom Allocation Rules section under [Cloud Cost settings][1] to establish rules. Choose from the following allocation methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access the [Custom Allocation Rules section][1] under Cloud Cost settings to establish rules. Choose from the following allocation methods:
```

Reviewer 2: Suggesting this update since the link leads directly to the Custom Allocation Rules section

{{< img src="cloud_cost/custom_allocation_rules/even_diagram.png" alt="Diagram illustrating the even split strategy" style="width:60%;" >}}

{{< img src="cloud_cost/custom_allocation_rules/even_ui.png" alt="The even split strategy as seen in Datadog" style="width:60%;" >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Custom Percentage Allocation" %}}
With the custom percentage strategy, you can define static custom percentages for the destination tags you select. For example, if you have 3 destinations (`teamA`, `teamB`, `teamC`) you can allocate 60% to `teamA`, 30% to `teamB`, and 10% to `teamC`.

{{< img src="cloud_cost/custom_allocation_rules/custom_percentage_diagram.png" alt="Diagram illustrating the even split strategy" style="width:60%;" >}}

{{< img src="cloud_cost/custom_allocation_rules/custom_percentage_ui.png" alt="The even split strategy as seen in Datadog" style="width:60%;" >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Specify what costs are included in the allocation
| Step | Required | Examples |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |

> | Cost Provider | Yes | AWS, GCP, Azure |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Select the cost provider | Yes | AWS, Google Cloud, Azure |
```

Reviewer 2: Suggesting to update the step's name to match how it's shown in the UI, which seems to be the pattern followed for other steps. This is also helpful for those using screen readers, as it can reduce ambiguity about what's being referenced

| Define the costs to split (source) | Yes | `aws_product` is `support` `allocated_spend_type` is untagged |
| Define the destination | Yes | `team` is `teamA`, `teamB`, `teamC` |
| Filter by | Only applicable for Proportional and Even strategies, optional | `aws_product` is `ec2` |
| Partition costs by | Only applicable for Proportional and Even strategies, optional | `environment` is all values |

> | Rule Name | Yes | allocate\_untagged\_support\_costs |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Name | Yes | allocate\_untagged\_support\_costs |
```

Reviewer 2: As above, suggesting this update for an exact match with the UI

## Managing rules

> Rules can be modified and deleted in the Custom Allocation Rules section of the Cloud Cost settings page. All fields except for the rule name can be reconfigured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rules can be modified and deleted in the [Custom Allocation Rules section][1] of the Cloud Cost settings page. All fields except for the rule name can be reconfigured.
```

Rules are applied in the same order as shown in the list.

## Visualize your allocations

> Changes to dynamic allocation rules may take up to 24 hours to be applied. Once applied, the new allocations can be seen throughout the Cloud Cost product. Dynamically allocated costs also include an `allocated_by_rule` tag, denoting the rule name that applied the allocation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Changes to dynamic allocation rules may take up to 24 hours to be applied. After being applied, the new allocations can be seen throughout Cloud Cost Management. Dynamically allocated costs also include an `allocated_by_rule` tag, denoting the rule name that applied the allocation.
```

Reviewer 2: Per the [documentation style guide](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#words-and-phrases)

{{< img src="cloud_cost/custom_allocation_rules/visualize_your_allocations.png" alt="See your allocations throughout the Datadog product" style="width:90%;" >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Further reading
{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

```

Reviewer 2: This is required to render the `Further reading` section
